When the joker sees a person taking his life seriously and regarding himself as extremely important, 
there is something a little bit funny about it and he is inclined to get the giggles. 

I discuss a point of view, the jokers point of view, 
from which not only our social institutions, 
but also all the formations of the natural world are seen as games. 


Be careful of the word game. 



It does not mean as trivialities, 
    
    because when we say it is just a game this often means it is just trivial. 
    
    
There can be important games, 

        as when we play the piano or musical instrument 
        
    we are not necessarily doing something frivolus, 
    
    but we are playing, 
    
    and there is something in the nature of all play that is not serious,
    
    
    but at the same time might be sincere ... 
    
    
    I try to give you the picture of the multiplicity of natural forms on the one hand, and of human social institutions and all the things we do and consider important and busy ourselves with as human beings. I try to give you the point of view from which these can be seen as games. As things being done as it was simply for themselves, and not for some ulterior motive, and therefore these games are in a way best played when they are played as games.

Although it is really alright that people take them seriously, except that they are a little bit deprived, they are missing something. And so, when the joker sees a person taking his life seriously and regarding himself as extremely important there is something funny about it and he is inclined to get the giggles.
He knows that the very intensity of seriousness with which the individuals concerned are taking these games will be a kind of foil for the subsequent bursting into laughter when he sees that it was not serious after all. You see that? You might say that there are these two classes of people.
There are the very far out people and the very far in people.
Now, ordinary we say that someone is very far out when they are odd balls, when they are exceedingly unconventional.
But, I want you to turn the picture around and look at the conventional person, look at the square, as a person that is very far out.
That is to say he is so involved in the seriousness of the game he is playing that he is lost.
He does not know where he started from and he think is there, ha, ha, ha, ha.
But he is completely lost.
Because he is actually under the cover of his assurance, of his status, of his position in the society. He is really a very anxious person.
Our society shows anxiety because it cannot permit the existence of people who do not belong.
And it cannot really permit the criticism of laughter.
It cannot permit the presence of the old fashion court jester.
Because these people are so far out.
They are so involved and from a certain standpoint, from the jokers standpoint.
He does not condemn such people, he rather congratulates them on their heroism for getting so lost and involved.
But to keep the far out people of going quite insane there have to be far in people and the far in people are those who keep contact with the original goings on behind the scene.
They are like the prompter in the theatre where there are the actors out on the stage relying on their memory etc. and they are supposed to be completely involved in the game.
But there is a concealed prompter with a script in front of him and he is the connection of the actor on the stage with the green room behind the stage.

There is  a cunning manner of becoming a Budda and that is to become one instantly without any preparation whatsoever. This is why Zen is called the sudden school and why satori is a sudden awakening. Because it has to be done without the slightest warning. Now.

But then I pointed out that the moment you have any idea about doing this you have already ceased to be sudden. That is to say the moment you seek for some spiritual attainment which is becoming a Budda, becoming awakened, becoming released, getting in there, you have already served notice upon your creditors so that somehow or other you have to do it without intending to do it. And that is a double bind, which you oppose upon yourself when you say;” I must find a way of doing this spontaneously. That is the old, old basic double bind. You must be spontaneous.